Welcome to our update!
How did the 2023 annual meeting affect you?
Remember the information
that highlighted Jehovah
as the merciful “Judge of all the earth”?
We were thrilled to learn
that individuals who died
in the Flood of Noah’s day,
in the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah,
and even some who might repent
during the great tribulation
could benefit from Jehovah’s mercy.
Since hearing that information,
have you found yourself
thinking a lot about Jehovah’s mercy?
Well, so has the Governing Body.
In our prayerful study,
meditation, and discussions,
we’ve focused our attention
on how Jehovah has dealt with people
who engaged in serious sin.
In this update, we’ll briefly consider
the pattern Jehovah set in the Bible record.
Then, we’ll discuss some new information
regarding the way we’ll handle
cases of wrongdoing
in the Christian congregation.
Second Peter 3:9 tells us
that Jehovah “does not desire
anyone to be destroyed
but desires all to attain to repentance.”
What does that teach us?
It helps us understand
that Jehovah wants people
to repent and gain life.
When the first human couple rebelled,
they condemned the human race
to sin and death.
What did Jehovah do?
He took immediate steps
to help as many of their descendants
as possible to gain life.
Through the sacrifice of Jesus,
Jehovah arranged to cover the sins
of all who would exercise faith and repent.
Such ones can live forever.
So it’s not surprising
that throughout the Bible record,
we find Jehovah
appealing to sinners to repent.
He urges those
who have strayed from true worship to return.
This is in harmony with Romans 2:4,
which says:
“Or do you despise
the riches of his kindness
“and forbearance and patience,
“because you do not know that God
in his kindness
is trying to lead you to repentance?”
Consider some examples
in which we see Jehovah
trying to lead sinners to repentance.
Cain showed murderous hatred
for his brother Abel,
but Jehovah reached out to Cain
and tried to reason with him.
When David sinned,
Jehovah used the prophet Nathan
to lead David to repentance.
And what about the nation of Israel?
Jehovah kept appealing to them,
even when they showed no desire to repent.
At Ezekiel 33:11,
Jehovah appeals to the nation of Israel:
“As surely as I am alive, . . .
“I take no pleasure
in the death of the wicked,
“but rather that someone wicked
changes his way
“and keeps living.
“Turn back, turn back from your bad ways,
for why should you die, O house of Israel?”
What does this teach us?
That while Jehovah
doesn’t force anyone to repent of his sins,
he has demonstrated great compassion
for imperfect humans.
He’s gone to great lengths
to make forgiveness possible,
to appeal to sinners,
and to lead them to repentance
if at all possible.
What a compassionate
and merciful God we worship!
The Governing Body
has prayerfully considered
how Jehovah’s mercy could be better reflected
when dealing with wrongdoers
in the congregation.
And that’s led to a clearer understanding
of three scriptures.
Let’s consider the first.
It’s 2 Timothy 2:24, 25.
There Paul said:
“For a slave of the Lord
does not need to fight,
“but needs to be gentle toward all,
“qualified to teach,
showing restraint when wronged,
“instructing with mildness
“those not favorably disposed.
“Perhaps God may give them repentance
leading to an accurate knowledge of truth.”
To whom was Paul referring
when he mentioned
“those not favorably disposed”?
A study note on 2 Timothy 2:25 explains:
“Paul uses a Greek word that in this context
“refers to people
who resist Christian teachings
“or who place themselves
in opposition to them.
“Paul may have had in mind, among others,
those in the congregation
“in Ephesus who had a negative attitude
“toward following Scriptural counsel
or heeding admonition
from brothers taking the lead.”
Today, this could include
brothers and sisters in the congregation
who disregard Scriptural counsel
and become involved in serious wrongdoing.
Someone who gets involved
in serious wrongdoing
needs help from the elders,
so a committee of elders
meets with the wrongdoer.
The goal of these elders
isn’t merely to judge
whether the wrongdoer is repentant
but also to act in harmony
with 2 Timothy 2:24, 25.
The elders must correct
and instruct the wrongdoer with mildness.
What is their goal?
Notice what another study note
on 2 Timothy 2:25 says.
“When a Christian elder mildly corrects
“or instructs ‘those not favorably disposed,’
“the good result may be repentance,
or ‘a change of mind.’
“The credit for such a change
in thinking and attitude
“goes, not to any human, but to Jehovah,
“who helps the wayward Christian
make this vital change.
“Paul goes on to mention
some of the beautiful results
“of such repentance
“—it leads the sinner
to a more accurate knowledge of the truth,
“it helps him come back to his proper senses,
and it enables him
to escape from Satan’s snares.”
So the elders have the goal
of leading the wrongdoer to repentance.
How does a clearer understanding
of 2 Timothy 2:24, 25
adjust our current arrangement?
Presently, a committee of elders
normally meets
with a wrongdoer only one time.
However, the Governing Body has decided
that the committee may decide
to meet with the person more than once.
Why?
At Revelation 2:21,
regarding “that woman Jezebel,”
Jesus said: “I gave her time to repent.”
We hope that
through the loving efforts of the elders,
Jehovah will help a wayward Christian
to come back to his proper senses and repent.
If he repents,
the committee will provide shepherding
so that the person
can escape from Satan’s snares
and keep making straight paths for his feet.
This arrangement reflects the same effort
that Jehovah personally made
to help David
and the nation of Israel to repent.
What about baptized minors
—those under 18 years of age—
who engage in serious wrongdoing?
Under our current arrangement,
such a baptized minor
along with his Christian parents
must meet with a committee of elders.
Under our new arrangement,
two elders will meet
with the minor and his Christian parents.
The elders will find out
what steps the parents have already taken
to help their child come to repentance.
If the minor has a good attitude
and the parents are reaching him,
the two elders might decide
that it isn’t necessary
to take the matter any further.
Of course, the elders
will occasionally check with the parents
to make sure that the minor
is getting the help he needs.
However, what if a baptized minor
unrepentantly persists in a wrong course?
In that case, a committee of elders
would meet with him
along with his Christian parents.
The Governing Body is confident
that these adjustments
reflect Jehovah’s desire
to lead sinners to repentance.
He wants them to “come to their senses
and escape from the snare of the Devil.”
“He does not desire anyone to be destroyed
but desires all to attain to repentance.”
Let’s move on to our second scripture.
It’s 1 Corinthians 5:13, which says:
“Remove the wicked person
from among yourselves.”
The Bible clearly teaches
that an unrepentant wrongdoer
should be removed from the congregation.
And really, it’s a consequence
that the wrongdoer has chosen.
Why so?
Because he refuses to respond
to repeated loving attempts by the elders
to lead him to repentance.
Even when the elders inform a person
that he’s being removed
from the congregation,
he won’t be left hopeless.
The committee will not simply explain
what steps he can take
to be welcomed back into the congregation.
What else will they do?
The elders will explain that they’d like
to meet with the individual again
after a few months
to see if he’s had a change of heart.
If the individual is willing to meet,
the elders will make a warm appeal
for him to repent and return.
What about individuals
who were disfellowshipped in the past,
perhaps even many years ago?
In some cases,
they may not even recall
the reason they were disfellowshipped.
They may have abandoned
their wrong course years ago.
The Governing Body has decided
that the elders should visit such ones,
pray with them,
and make a warm appeal for them
to return to the congregation.
If a person has been away
from the congregation for many years,
he would no doubt be very weak spiritually.
Therefore, if such a person is willing,
the elders could arrange for him
to have a Bible study
even before he’s reinstated.
Of course, the individual
would have to want
to return to the congregation,
and the elders would always be the ones
to arrange for such a study.
In imitation of Jehovah’s mercy
toward imperfect sinners,
we want to reach out
and help as many as possible
to know that the door is open
for them to come back to the congregation.
If you are a disfellowshipped person
listening to this update,
we urge you
to accept the efforts of the elders
to help you return to the congregation.
If you’re living in an area
where you don’t know the local elders,
please feel free to call
or visit the local Kingdom Hall
and request spiritual assistance.
Jehovah wants you to come home,
and we do too.
In keeping with the Scriptural admonition
at 1 Corinthians 5:11,
when a person has been removed
from the congregation,
we “stop keeping company” with that person,
“not even eating with such a man.”
That means we don’t socialize
with those who are removed
from the congregation.
However, that does not mean
that a Christian could not invite
a disfellowshipped person
to attend a congregation meeting.
That disfellowshipped person
could be a relative,
a former Bible student,
or someone we were close to in the past.
How appropriate
this adjustment is at this time,
as we’re preparing for the most important
meeting of the year, the Memorial,
which will be held on Sunday, March 24!
What if a disfellowshipped person
comes to a congregation meeting?
Under our current arrangement,
we don’t say a greeting
to individuals who’ve been removed
from the congregation.
However, the Governing Body
has decided that publishers
can use their Bible-trained conscience
to decide whether to give a simple greeting
and welcome a disfellowshipped individual
who attends a congregation meeting.
Hi.
It’s so good to see you here.
Thank you.
While we wouldn’t have
an extended conversation
or socialize with such a person,
we do not need to ignore him completely.
That brings us to our third scripture.
It’s 2 John 9-11.
There we read:
“Everyone who pushes ahead
and does not remain
“in the teaching of the Christ
“does not have God.
“The one who does remain in this teaching
“is the one who has
both the Father and the Son.
“If anyone comes to you
and does not bring this teaching,
“do not receive him into your homes
or say a greeting to him.
“For the one who says a greeting to him
is a sharer in his wicked works.”
But doesn’t 2 John 9-11 tell us
not to say a greeting to anyone
who’s been removed from the congregation?
In examining the context of those verses,
the Governing Body has concluded
that the apostle John
was really describing apostates
and others
who actively promoted wrong conduct.
For good reason,
John strongly directed Christians
not even to greet such a person
because of his contaminating influence.
Therefore, if a disfellowshipped individual
is a known apostate
or someone
who actively promotes wrongdoing,
the elders would not visit him.
Neither would individual Christians
greet such a person
or invite him to attend
a congregation meeting.
In this update,
we’ve examined Jehovah’s desire
to lead sinners to repentance
and we’ve received clarification
on three scriptures
that relate to how wrongdoers
should be dealt with.
In harmony with 2 Timothy 2:24, 25,
a committee of elders will lovingly correct
and instruct a wrongdoer
with the goal of leading him to repentance.
As outlined at 1 Corinthians 5:13,
a person who refuses to repent
must be removed from the congregation.
However, the committee will still try
to help him see the need
to repent and return
and will arrange
for a follow-up meeting in a few months.
We also clarified our understanding
of 2 John 9-11,
which we learned
applies specifically to apostates
and others
who actively promote wrong conduct,
not to all those who have been removed
from the congregation.
Ever since the first human couple sinned,
Jehovah has been working
to rescue repentant humans.
Of course, Jehovah isn’t permissive,
and he doesn’t shield unrepentant wrongdoers
from the consequences of their actions.
Still, in his love,
Jehovah wants sinners
to become reconciled to him
if at all possible.
He doesn’t want anyone to be destroyed,
so he appeals to them to repent.
Elders are privileged
to be fellow workers with Jehovah
as they work to help sinners
come to repentance.
Our love for Jehovah continues to deepen
as we meditate on his love,
mercy, and compassion.
We know you’ll be happy to hear
that the information contained in this update
will be published in a series of articles
that will appear
in the study edition of The Watchtower.
In addition,
the elders will receive direction
on how to apply this information.
May Jehovah bless us
as we work to implement these arrangements
that reflect his love and mercy.
Before we conclude,
the Governing Body has asked me
to read the following announcement:
“The Governing Body has decided
“that sisters may choose to wear slacks
“when participating in the ministry
“and when attending Christian meetings,
“assemblies, and conventions.
“If a sister chooses
to wear slacks on such occasions,
“they should not be casual but dignified,
“modest, and appropriate.
“When a sister has a part on the program,
“she should wear a skirt or a dress
“if that is the standard of dress
in that land.
“Of course, some sisters
may choose to wear a skirt or a dress
“even when they do not have
a part on the program.
“In addition, brothers may choose
not to wear a tie or a jacket
“when participating in the ministry
and when attending Christian meetings,
“assemblies, and conventions.
“If a brother chooses not to wear a tie
“or a jacket on such occasions,
“he should dress in a manner
that is appropriate,
“modest, and dignified
“—not casual.
“When a brother has a part on the program,
“he should wear a tie and a jacket
“if that is the standard of dress
in that land.
“Of course, some brothers
may choose to wear a tie or a jacket
“even when they do not have
a part on the program.
“When visiting Bethel,
it would be appropriate
“for brothers to wear a tie and a jacket
“and for sisters to wear a skirt or a dress
if that is the standard of dress
in that land.”
We love you all very much!
From the World Headquarters
of Jehovah’s Witnesses,
this is JW Broadcasting®.